Good morning, everyone.
I trust the mic.
Oh, there it goes.
It's good to be in San Francisco,
and I am very pleased to have the
opportunity to meet before you at
the Worldwide Developers Conference.
It's a great opportunity for us
to explain these licensing terms,
which have been the subject of
so much discussion in the press
and privately and so forth.
And certainly,
interest runs no higher among users
of MPEG-4 technology than those
of you in this room and at this
conference because of Apple's,
certainly, their great support through
the QuickTime products.
And obviously, that's very important to
the start of this market.
The other element that is important
to the start of the market is
to clarify licensing terms.
And I say that not only for
whatever needs to be done still now,
but what needed to be done even a year
and a half ago when various controversies
started over what this license was
about and what it wasn't about.
The reason I say this as
a platform is because,
you know,
to start out the discussion here,
is because every
technology such as MPEG-4,
which is an open standard,
is subject to technology
that is owned by many,
many different patent holders.
And in the old days, I say the old days,
the days before standards
were widely implemented,
before digital video and
digital audio and other digital
technologies were implemented,
users were pretty much on their own when
it came to clearing rights under relevant
patents for the use of a technology.
Picture the situation where, for example,
you as a user or other
implementers of the technology
go forward with the technology,
or Apple, for that matter,
goes forward with the technology.
and does not have the availability
of a license such as the one we
present that provides access to
many different patents owned by many
different patent holders in one place.
The consequence of that, unfortunately,
is that the implementer, the user,
the promoter
is subject to potential
infringement by 20,
25, 30 different parties that may
own essential patent rights.
So they go out with the technology,
and obviously there's a possibility
of litigation or infringement
allegations and so forth.
And that's what
MPEG LA tries to clear up.
That is the entire purpose of our being,
which is to try to bring as much of
this essential intellectual property
rights under one license as possible,
so that when a user goes to market,
they don't have to have 20
negotiations or 25 or 30 negotiations
with individual patent holders.
It doesn't take a brain scientist to
understand that a technology that has
to go through that many negotiations is,
frankly, dead on arrival.
So what we try to do is bring the 20
or 25 or 30 patent holders together
under one license so that users
and implementers and promoters can
get the rights they need in one
place with one negotiation and move
forward from there without fear of
having infringement claims hoisted
upon them by the patent owners.
Some of what I've said may
seem kind of cloudy to you,
so let me take it step by step,
give you a little
background about MPEG LA,
and then let's talk specifically
about the MPEG-4 Visual License.
I did want to just set that up as
background though for the general role
that MPEG LA plays in this technology.
We all know that.
A lot has been said.
A lot has been written.
I myself was a recipient
of probably 6,000 emails.
Some of you in this room I'm hoping
I actually communicated with.
We tried to respond to all of them.
And by the way, they were very helpful.
They made a tangible change in the
licensing terms as a result of what you
wrote and what you expressed and the
heartfelt feelings that you had about
the ease of implementation that you
faced or the difficulty of implementation
you faced when the terms first came out.
As you may know,
they were revised about six months later,
reflecting many of your views.
Obviously, not everyone is always
happy with licensing terms,
but we went a long way, we think,
to correcting some of the
deficiencies in the original license.
That's what we're going to discuss.
As I said, first I'd like to provide
some background on MPEG LA.
MPEG LA is not a patent holder.
MPEG LA is not a user of any technology.
In terms of promoting
it or being a licensee,
shall I say,
of one of our own licensing programs.
We are an independent company.
whose sole purpose is to try to
bring order out of the market chaos.
The market chaos is what
I referred to earlier.
The situation where a
standard that everyone likes,
many people want to use,
has one single problem that holds
it back from implementation.
And that single problem is how can
we get it out there and get it widely
used by the biggest number of users
without facing multiple infringement
actions or essential patent claims.
So where we began was in 1997.
As a company,
we began licensing the MPEG-2
video compression standard.
That was our beginning.
The single biggest challenge to
MPEG-2's adoption was dealing with the
essential intellectual property rights.
MPEG, as you know,
stands for Moving Pictures Expert Group.
It was a group of engineers from
all over the world who still meet
to discuss international standards.
They are the authors
of the MPEG-4 standard.
They were the authors
of the MPEG-2 standard.
The standard was developed in
the early '90s to the mid '90s.
It was an answer to where to begin with
a high quality digital compression for
real time video in the broadband sense,
in the broadcast sense, by satellite,
by cable, and by DVD player.
And as I said,
it was well known going into this
process that the technology which
the MPEG group had put together
as a single specification to be
made available widely to the world
had one barrier to implementation,
one significant barrier
to implementation.
I think it's obvious to all
of you in this room what the
benefits of interoperability are,
which is what the purpose
of these standards is.
So the MPEG-2 standard sitting here
on a voluminous amount of paper.
was no better than the paper
it was written on unless
it could be implemented.
And many companies throughout the
industry had a significant interest
in seeing its implementation
because obviously that answered
the problem to interoperability.
But, many patents owned by many patent
owners caused potential for confusion,
conflict, spelled litigation, and cost,
spelled multiple negotiations,
and possibly endless negotiations,
and possibly negotiations
that were inaccessible to
the normally sized company.
You know, maybe large companies,
maybe companies,
small companies with significant
technology would see the inside
of the door of a particular patent
holder who wanted to cross license
for that particular technology.
But in general,
in order to foster the widest
possible use of this standard,
there had to be a different
way of doing things.
So the MPEG group set in
motion an intellectual
property rights working group.
It was headed by Baron Futa,
who is the current CEO of MPEG LA.
They worked for a number of years
on coming up with a blueprint
for overcoming this problem.
The result of that deliberation
was the creation of MPEG LA.
Of course, MPEG LA used that blueprint,
but as a private company,
had to sell patent holders on,
or shall I say convince patent
holders to include their intellectual
property under one license in a model
that had never been tried before.
This was unprecedented.
The venture, which became the MPEG-2
Patent Portfolio License,
went before a six-month review
before the Department of Justice.
As a matter of caution and common sense,
because it was new and unprecedented,
and the Department of Justice in its
review found the business plan of
MPEG LA for MPEG-2 to be pro-competitive.
It was designed with many elements
in mind to achieve fairness,
reasonableness, and nondiscrimination.
Fairness and nondiscrimination
and reasonableness,
particularly important elements.
You'll probably hear me
refer to them later today.
They're big words.
They don't mean much by themselves.
But we hope that our licenses and the
acceptance of those licenses in the
market helps to define what is fair,
reasonable, and non-discriminatory
in the marketplace.
Obviously,
a license that is widely accepted
can be viewed as fair and reasonable.
We administer them to
be non-discriminatory.
What does that mean?
Non-discriminatory means
that a patent holder,
a licensor as we call them,
who happens also to be a licensee,
a user of the technology,
and there are many,
will be treated the same
as any other licensee.
They receive no favorable
treatment over a licensee who
does not have patents themselves.
Very important principle.
So not to pick on a particular company,
but if you go on our website
you will see that there are
currently 22 patent holders in the
MPEG-2 patent portfolio license.
They include names such as Sony and
Matsushita and Columbia University.
It's a wide spectrum of patent owners.
And Columbia, of course,
is not a licensee because they don't use
the technology in the conventional sense.
But a Sony, for example,
pays the same royalty rates
that any other user pays.
Obviously, as a patent holder,
they get a piece of the revenue
that comes as a result of any
royalties that are collected
for the use of this technology.
But the technology was
not developed for free.
It was not developed at no cost.
This is their way of getting a return,
a reasonable return on their
investment so that they,
like other patent holders,
can continue to develop new
technologies that fuel the marketplace.
Our sole business is based on what
we call one-stop patent licenses.
Once again,
MPEG LA itself is not a patent holder.
We aggregate essential patents owned
by many parties under one license.
And then we have the right
to sub-license those to the
marketplace on the same fair,
reasonable,
non-discriminatory terms to everyone.
We'll get into that more in a minute.
I apologize if we spend this much
time on the background of MPEG LA,
but I think it's important to try to
understand where we're coming from,
what we're trying to achieve,
and I think it'll be easier to
understand the MPEG-4 license once
we begin that discussion momentarily.
This is the problem that
MPEG LA set out to solve.
I won't review it all,
but suffice it to say
that in the last 10 years,
Companies, individuals have understood,
like they never have before,
the value of intellectual property.
rapid patenting, voluminous applications
before the US Patent Office.
I'm unprecedented in history in terms of
the number of patents that are entering
the office and are being reviewed.
I don't have the figures at hand,
but I understand that it's probably
doubled over the last 10-year period.
It means that people are patenting
Anything that they
believe to be patentable,
something that is an invention which was
not subject to any prior publication and
which they are the first to discover.
What happens is that there's growing
interdependence among patents.
When you put out a standard
such as MPEG-2 or MPEG-4,
it isn't just one invention like the
telephone and Alexander Graham Bell or
the other poor guy who had
the real patent on that.
But it is a situation where the
standard that is established is
subject to many patents covering many
elements of the compression standard:
the decoding, the encoding,
the transport, and all kinds of elements
surrounding that,
whether it be spatial redundancy
or temporal redundancy or whatever.
So there are many patents to deal with,
and it's not getting less.
It's getting more.
It's been referred to
as the patent thicket.
And the result is that licensing
transaction costs for companies
who engage in MPEG-2 or MPEG-4
or other such technologies are
extraordinarily burdensome.
The possibility that a technology
may do nothing except gather
dust on the paper on which it
is written is greater than ever.
There needs to be a bridge,
and the bridge is to try to set up a
one-stop license as a transition to
the marketplace that can allow people
to have non-discriminatory access to
the technology with one negotiation.
One-on-one licensing arrangements
ruled the day before MPEG LA.
That's the way people operated.
They negotiated one-on-one.
And they still negotiate one-on-one.
MPEG LA does not replace
one-on-one licensing negotiations.
It works with those that
are necessary in the market.
It's one more element that technology
users have to choose from in
determining how they want to deal with
their intellectual property rights.
And I know I'm talking to a
group of knowledgeable people
who do a lot of development.
But basically,
the laws of most countries worldwide,
virtually all,
recognize the right of an inventor
to have the fruits of its invention.
And what that basically means is,
I always try to draw it like a boundary
line of a piece of real estate.
That basically means that
you carve out the four walls,
the four corners,
the four boundary lines of a patent.
And if a user trespasses
on that property,
then what the law says is that
the patent holder has the right to
exclude that user from using that
technology on which they trespass.
And that is the nature of a patent.
So they're out there.
They have to be dealt with.
MPEG LA didn't make them.
Obviously,
we're glad they're there because
that is MPEG LA's business.
I can't apologize for that.
But we take the
marketplace as we found it,
and we're trying to make it easier
for users to deal with that issue
rather than have to go through
individual negotiations with each one.
So this is the way we do it.
We put them in one license.
We offer them on the same terms.
And the result, for example,
in MPEG-2 has been quite remarkable.
MPEG-2 licensing, as I said earlier,
began July 1997,
following the Department of
Justice's business review.
Actually, I see a misspelling there.
It should be licensors with an O,
but it still means the
same thing to everybody.
We started with eight patent holders.
Eight patent holders.
To become a part of the program,
it's not your pedigree that counts.
It's whether or not you
have an essential patent.
An essential patent is one
That cannot be avoided in the
implementation of a technology.
If it cannot be avoided in the
implementation of a technology,
then it's essential.
If there are other ways to perform that
same technology that is in the patent,
it is not essential.
It's as simple as that.
And rather than make those decisions
ourselves or rely upon our patent
holders to make those decisions,
the patent holders submit-- the patent
holders who want to participate in
this program submit their patents
for evaluation by independent
patent experts that we hire.
We have independent
patent experts in the US,
Korea, Japan, and Europe who review these
patents on a regular basis.
And if found essential,
and if the patent holder is willing
to agree to the terms of license that
all the other patent holders agree to,
they are included in the portfolio.
So the license grows,
and it grows quite phenomenally.
We started with eight licensors,
as I said, and we now have 22 in MPEG-2.
Why 14 in the six years that
this program has been licensed?
Why those additions?
Well, in some cases,
it was a matter of expediency to
get the license going because the
market needed it fast in 1997.
So a line had to be drawn.
There were already a few patent
holders waiting to get in,
but we started with the original eight.
Immediately after it began,
some more were immediately added.
As for the others,
they fall into two categories.
Some had patent applications
that had not issued as patents
yet when the program began.
And this program deals
only with issued patents,
doesn't deal with patent applications,
which, by the way,
are not even licensable
in the United States.
They are licensable in Europe,
it's my understanding,
but not enforceable in Europe.
So we focus on issued patents because
issued patents have the mark of
validity that is basically the result
of their review process by the patent
office in the applicable country.
So many of them had patents that
issued after the program started.
They came in.
And yes,
there were a number of patent holders
who didn't want to be a part of the
MPEG-2 Joint Licensing Program at all.
But they subsequently came in too once
they saw that it would be successful.
They were not early risk takers.
They wanted to do it themselves.
But they came in,
and certainly we're glad to have them,
because our objective is to include
as much essential intellectual
property in one license as possible
for the benefit of the user.
And in fairness to the user,
when we grew with this phenomenal growth,
which by the way began
with 25 patent families,
approximately 100 patents worldwide,
and now has grown to 123 patent
families representing more than
575 patents in 56 countries,
the royalty rate never increased.
It never increased.
Our promise to you, the user,
is that the royalty rates remain the same
during the current term of the license.
Now,
MPEG-2 has gone through multiple terms.
But it didn't go down even
when it renewed for a new term.
In fact, in January of 2002,
the market saw a 40% reduction
in the royalty rates charged
for decoders and encoders.
The patent holders in
MPEG LA were able to do that,
one, because, frankly,
they saw the nature of the marketplace
and the declining prices of product,
and they wanted the royalty
to fit comfortably with what
people were charging for their
products going out the door,
whether it be a set-top box,
a DVD player, a PC equipped with
DVD playback or whatever.
Under the old rate,
we had very high compliance
in most market sectors,
but not all.
With the reduction to 250,
we are now able to boast that we
include north of 85% compliance
in every major market sector
that is using MPEG-2 technology.
So it was a very significant thing to
reduce the royalty and increase the
compliance by many market sectors.
And in this age of convergence,
that is no small thing.
I'm sure you all realize,
given the convergence,
but we heard from set-top box
makers who were upset that a
PC maker was not paying royalties.
And we have, once again,
this may sound strange,
but this is a licensing product,
and we love our customers very much.
And we want to keep faith with them.
And if we sense that
something is off balance,
we try to correct it.
We try to go to the patent holders
who make the ultimate decisions and
try to talk out with them what we
see of our view of the marketplace
that may require a change in order to
respond to a marketplace condition.
And at the time, January 2002,
we thought it was appropriate
to reduce the royalties.
We now have more than
570 licensees in MPEG-2.
We license now four other
programs using this same template.
This MPEG-2 template,
so successful in seeing the
widespread implementation of
MPEG-2 across the marketplace,
resulting in the inclusion of
as much essential intellectual
property in one license that
saves users valuable negotiating
time and creates a level playing
field so that what they're paying,
others are paying in other market
sectors as well as their own.
The program has caught on to
be popular with helping to
foster other technologies.
One quite familiar to you
as developers is 1394,
mostly known under the
Apple trademark FireWire.
It's been a very successful
licensing program.
It was organized in November 1999
to cover the 1394 standard,
including a portion of the IEC standard
that dealt with the peripherals
that are attached to the network.
It has eight patent holders, licensors,
and now has more than 220 licensees.
And I'm proud to say, of course,
Apple is a patent holder in that program.
And of course, I think it's not unfair
to say that Apple,
if you look at our list of patents,
which was posted on our website,
this one on 1394LA.com,
and if you look at our list of licensees,
which are also posted,
you'll certainly see that Apple is a
major player in the intellectual property
that was developed for this technology.
Along with others,
but certainly Apple has the, has a large,
maybe the largest volume of
patents among all the patent
holders that are represented.
Our third licensing program was for the
implementation of the DVBT standard.
DVBT being the terrestrial broadcast
standard used in Europe and
Asia and other parts of the world,
I think all except for the US and Canada,
which have chosen the ATSC standard
for digital broadcast transmissions.
We are licensing that program as well.
And we have a London office to
try to work in the European market
where that technology is
getting its commencement point.
And most recently,
we began licensing MPEG-4 Visual.
I know, that's still the topic today.
And the MPEG-4 Systems License.
And I just note, for the record,
the MPEG-4 Systems License also
includes Apple's intellectual property
that is essential to that standard
in the form of the MP4 file format.
Let's turn to the topic,
MPEG-4 Visual License.
That's the background.
What I just said really is our operating
procedure for all of our licenses.
They deal with essential patents.
They issue on a fair, reasonable,
non-discriminatory basis.
They go through patent reviews
by independent patent experts
so that there is some sense of
credibility and reliability that
people aren't just sitting in
a smoke-filled room and saying,
"I'll let you include your patent if you
include mine." That is not what happens.
There's no horse trading going on here.
A patent can only be included if it meets
the essentiality standard as applied
by the independent patent examiner.
Every license, first to understand it,
you must lay out what it covers.
What do you get for this license?
Now we don't ever say
that we have all patents,
because we don't know that we do.
You who deal with intellectual property
may know there are a lot of what they
call submarine patents out there,
or likely to be.
There's a possibility
of submarine patents.
Second, even if we were to know about
other essential patents,
this is a voluntary exercise
for the benefit of the market.
It's a way of marketing the technology.
It's a way of marketing the patents.
It's a way of providing a service to
users who want to use the technology.
But we have no way to compel
an essential patent holder
to include their technology.
We can only hope that by the way
we do business and the way we
present the license to the market,
and by the acceptance of the
royalty rates and other terms,
that patent holders will want
to be a part of the license.
They will have the incentive to be a
part of the license because they believe,
one,
it's the best service they can perform
for the market to make them available,
and two,
that it's actually the best way to
market their patents for this technology.
So what does it cover?
A lot of words here.
I'm not going to go over them with you,
but MPEG-4 Visual Standard refers
to Part 2 of the MPEG-4 Standard.
There is a Part 10,
which has been the subject
of much discussion,
and we can take some questions
on it later if you like,
which is often referred
to as H.264 or AVC.
But the MPEG-4 Visual Standard is
divided into profiles.
The profiles accomplish
different results of different
complexity and different quality.
And you, more technical than I,
probably know them far better than I.
So I hope to avoid that today for myself.
But the objective of this license,
initially when we started this license,
and this was actually before
your QuickTime conference,
we were only focused
on two of the profiles,
which were called Simple and Core.
And when we went back
to the drawing board,
we thought it made more sense to
include all of the profiles in part two.
We didn't want to set up a
situation where a user starts to
get married to the technology,
decides to migrate along its
path to a higher complexity,
and then, as a result,
And then only to find that the next shoe
drops from the patent holders and say,
oh, that'll be another license fee,
thank you.
So we decided to throw all the profiles
under one license so that users didn't
for themselves have to decipher one,
whether they were using
one profile versus another.
In some cases, that's not so easy.
We leave the complexity on the
inside for us to figure out in
terms of dividing the royalties.
And then second,
we didn't want them to have to,
as I said, come back for another license.
We wanted this license to be evergreen
for any use of MPEG-4 Part 2.
So it covers all those profiles,
and this happens to be the official
reference to where those profiles
and this standard can be found.
and not to confuse you anymore with that,
but it is the basis, by the way,
on which the independent patent
examiner makes their evaluations.
Okay, so how is this done?
I just went over the coverage.
It's the entire MPEG-4 visual part two.
How does it accomplish this result?
Okay, most of this you've already had,
but I'm going to repeat myself again.
It's always a good thing to
do it in different examples,
I'm
We rely upon patent submissions by
parties who believe that they have
essential intellectual property.
We ask them to submit the
essential intellectual property for
evaluation by the patent examiner,
and if found to be essential,
and a prerequisite for their
submission is that they will
agree to the licensing terms.
They are admitted to the license.
So that's the first thing.
Each patent in the license is essential
to the MPEG-4 visual standard.
Second, it's evaluated by
independent patent experts.
Third, each patent holder promises
to us worldwide coverage.
What does that mean?
Obviously,
they can't provide worldwide coverage
where they don't have a patent,
but it means that wherever
they have an essential patent,
in whatever country worldwide,
they may have an essential patent.
That patent,
under legal obligation to MPEG LA,
must come into the patent portfolio.
So a patent holder can't say, well,
this is great.
I'll give you the United States,
but I'm going to hold Japan to myself.
No, no.
You as a user must have the comfort
to know that if a patent holder's
name shows up on this license,
If they have an essential patent in
another country other than what's listed,
or those that are listed,
that eventually they're
going to be included.
That they can't come
later and say to you,
"I have an essential patent, and oh,
by the way, I didn't include it in the
MPEG LA license." You have the
right to believe that they're
not going to bother you for any
essential patents that they may own.
Some companies patent in 50, 60,
70 countries worldwide.
They get very, very broad coverage.
And of course,
it costs a lot of money to do that.
Others focus on only a few countries.
So the patterns of where these
patents show up can vary substantially
from one company to another.
And remember,
MPEG LA has nothing to do with
the prosecution of these patents.
We only receive them once they
issue from a patent office and
thereby qualify for inclusion.
This means, of course,
that there's always more intellectual
property in the pipeline,
in the evaluation pipeline.
There's more coming.
Our independent patent
experts are kept very,
very busy.
Between quarters,
when we announce the new patents
that go into the license,
they are busily evaluating them,
and when found essential, they come in.
And a question possibly on your mind is,
well, what about the dilution factor?
And the answer is, no.
dilution factor to patent holders.
And the answer is,
those are the rules of the road.
That's what patent holders understand.
And the fact is, like any growing,
emerging product,
the more patents that come into
a license don't make it less
valuable to each patent holder.
They make it more valuable to each
patent holder because the product,
the licensing product,
is that much more acceptable
to the market at large.
More users, more royalties,
more implementation,
and therefore more success.
When they come in,
they are added at no additional royalty
during the current term of the license.
MPEG-4 License, who owns these creatures
that we're talking about?
Who owns these patents that
have been found essential by
an independent patent expert?
This is the current list.
There are others in the
evaluation pipeline.
I'm not at liberty to say whether
they own a central property or not.
The balls and strikes, as we call it,
are called by an independent umpire.
That will determine the extent to
which other patent owners are included.
But currently, there are 20 companies.
Their promise to MPEG LA,
and by implication to you,
is that all of their essential
intellectual property will be included.
That's the list, and of course it's also
available on our website,
in this case, mpegla.com.
and then go to the MPEG-4
button which appears below,
MPEG-4 visual button which appears below,
and they will be arrayed there as well,
as will the current
portfolio of essential
patents that they own.
This program is new.
So, just like in the MPEG-2 program,
at the initial part,
the numbers of patents are fewer.
But we have every reason to believe
that with this many patent holders,
who are known for owning
patents worldwide,
that it will increase substantially
over the term of the program.
We are still only in our first eight
months of offering the license.
The license has been
called variously complex.
I'm trying to prove that that is not so.
This is what you need to know
about the license on one slide.
And by the way,
let me speak to the complexity
before we go to this.
What is perceived as complexity, well,
first of all,
licensing is a--tends to be a
one-on-one discussion in education.
It's our business.
And I don't mean it's our business
like you can't get into it.
I mean, it's our business to deal with
our customers on a daily basis,
which we do.
We probably respond to, I mean,
I haven't taken a recent estimate,
but it could be as many as 1,000 emails
a week asking particular questions about
this license and our other licenses.
And people share with us information
about their specific implementations
and their specific business models,
and we work with them to understand
how the license will apply to them.
In some cases, there may be some quirks,
and we try to work with them
to make the license fit within
the limits of our authority.
When we get a situation where we believe,
and by the way,
we're fairly inflexible in terms of,
because the whole key here is to
have a non-discriminatory license.
So we don't make separate
deals with anybody.
We have to assure ourselves that the
same license will be applied on a
non-discriminatory basis to everyone.
So when we answer these quirky
implementation questions,
we're very careful to stick to the
absolute principles of the license.
And we're very mindful not
to do anything for one that
we wouldn't do for everybody.
So what we'll do for one,
we would do for everybody.
And these questions...
Sometimes tax that consistency.
We have to be very careful.
And we take that as a very strong creed
for us that we must be very careful,
and we are.
If we see, though,
that there's something developing in the
marketplace that is not just a one-of,
that is widespread,
and that is really bothering users.
It's something often that we
will take to the patent holders
and discuss as a possibility for
a need to change the license.
MPEG-2,
we made a significant change early on.
Actually, it took us a couple years to
accommodate the DVD/DISC market.
When we went out,
we found that the royalties which
the patent holders had determined
were frankly not ready for prime
time when it came to enlisting
disk replicators to the license.
And we worked with some major disk
replicators to understand their
business model more thoroughly,
recommended a change
to the patent holders,
which was approved,
and then made those changes
available to the market at large.
And now today we have what we
estimate to be 85% compliance
by the replication industry.
So we are not adverse to change.
But on the other hand,
licenses like this have to
be administered in a fairly,
well, absolute non-discriminatory manner.
And it is the only product we offer.
We're not going to make different
licenses for different parties.
So, long way of saying,
what about this complexity issue?
Complexity came from a very
well-intentioned thing,
which was to try to accommodate different
business models in this license where
the patent holders thought and still
believe there are significant differences
in the way people do business.
So it does have different gradations,
different models for Internet and
mobile and what we call unique use,
which refers to cable and satellite.
and for what we call stored video,
which refers to packaged media or
electronic transmissions of what
I would call DVD equivalent videos.
And we work with some content
providers to try to understand their
business models before issuing the
license in order to make that happen.
Now this isn't, in all cases,
ready to wear material, as they say.
Not ready, off the shelf,
go out to the market.
We've taken it off the shelf,
and the good news is
that people talk to us.
They tell us their business models,
and we work with them very carefully.
Recently, once again,
I don't know if you've seen this,
but there's been news of concern
among Japanese broadcasters who wish
to do a mobile broadcast service,
mobile service.
And there's been some concern
among mobile content providers.
And we are working with
them very carefully.
And we are finding that in many cases,
the distance between us was really
to be educated on the terms of
the license and how they would
apply to their business model.
And we believe that those
objections will be overcome.
Not unlike any sales business,
you have to meet the user
and overcome the objections.
That's the test here.
One size fits all,
but it may not answer all questions.
But if it's done right,
it can be adjusted for change,
or it can be worked to work
with individual business models.
All right, the summary.
Here's the way the license works.
Generally in patent rights,
you have what are called a right to make,
a right to sell, and a right to use.
and I'm sure people can
divide them in other ways,
but I'm just keeping it simple.
Make, sell and use.
So the way the license is constructed
for MPEG-4 Visual is that manufacturers
pay royalties for the right to make
and sell decoders and encoders.
That responsibility falls upon them.
Who is a manufacturer?
A manufacturer would be the
end supplier of a product.
a manufacturer of a DVD player,
the one whose brand name appears on it.
In the internet and PC area,
it would be the fully functioning,
the manufacturer of the
fully functioning product.
It would be someone who provides
the fully functioning software
that then gets downloaded,
for example, to a PC for further use.
They pay royalties for the right to
make and sell the decoders and encoders.
Now what's included in that
right to make and sell,
beyond the right to just simply
manufacture it and sell it,
is that the decoder and encoder
may be used for personal use.
No limitation.
And also, it may be used for what we call
end-user to end-user communications.
Those are all covered as part
of the manufacturer's license.
So if an encoder and a
decoder appear in a handset,
cell phone, mobile phone,
The encoders and decoders may
be used for people to send video
to each other and to communicate
with each other on a personal,
private level.
No additional royalty is
required for doing that.
That is part of the
manufacturer's license.
Similarly, on a PC.
Whether it doesn't have to be mobile,
it could be on a PC.
End-user to end-user
communications are included.
If people are IMing each other, videos,
personal videos, family videos,
whatever it might be,
they're making some video creation,
that's included in the license
that the manufacturer pays.
Even though a mobile provider may collect
money on a minute-by-minute basis for
the time that the end users spend online,
While they make their end-user to
end-user personal communications,
that is still covered under
this manufacturer's license.
No additional royalty.
That's not considered the remuneration,
which we're going to
talk about in a moment.
Video providers, third bullet,
do not pay royalties unless MPEG-4 visual
material is provided for remuneration.
What does that mean?
Basically, all use is okay.
At the point where you are remunerated as
a video provider for offering the video,
then an additional royalty is paid.
The remuneration may
be direct or indirect.
It can be a subscription,
it could be a per minute charge for video
that's offered generally to the public.
It could be advertising supported,
but it does not include
self-advertising or promotion.
So,
Apple puts MPEG-4 video on its website
in order to promote its self-image
and its products and draw you to
the website with items of value.
They're not paid for
including that video.
They just offer it as a service to
you and as entertainment for you.
That's part of
self-advertising and promotion.
Not remuneration, no royalty,
even though it may sell
their own products.
If the only remuneration is that
from selling their own products,
that's okay.
That's included.
Let me put it this way,
that gets into technicality.
There is no additional royalty required,
and the patent holders are not
looking to bring legal actions against
people who engage in that activity.
Fourth bullet,
if MPEG-4 visual material is
provided for remuneration,
then video providers pay
royalties for the right to
use the decoders and encoders.
So this is the only
case where a use right,
remember make, sell, and use.
And the make and sell is included
in the manufacturer's royalty.
Use is included in the manufacturer's
royalty for certain limited purposes,
including personal use and end-user
to end-user communications.
But where the video provider goes off
and offers its video for remuneration,
then there is a separate
use right required.
And that's where the video provider pays.
That's the license in a nutshell.
Manufacturers pay in the model royalties
for the right to make and sell.
It includes certain uses.
If a video provider uses the encoders
and decoders for remuneration,
additional royalties are paid.
Otherwise, no.
Okay, why is it structured this way?
What does this have to do with
the real world flow of commerce?
Why is it different from other
licenses that patent holders
have engaged in over the years?
And it is different in some respects,
certainly, as you can see.
This reflects the attempt by the patent
holders to align with what we call the
real-world flow of MPEG-4 commerce.
It was their belief that they put too
heavy of a royalty on the manufacturer.
More than a nominal royalty
on the manufacturer,
that it would chill the
market and would not allow the
promoters of this technology
to offer the technology widely.
So they did not want to put it all there.
And in many cases,
especially with MPEG-4,
which of course is in QuickTime, they
The technology is such that
decoders and encoders will
often be given away for free.
They'll often be given out widely
in order to get the most massive
distribution for the technology.
So the patent holders wanted
to assess the royalties mostly
where value is received.
In other words,
those who can afford to pay should pay.
And if the manufacturer is not
realizing the bulk of the revenue here,
the entire burden should not be on them.
It should be assessed where a
video provider who is making money
can afford to build the royalty
charge into their business model.
That's the concept.
So, in this case,
royalty follows revenue.
Royalty follows remuneration in terms of
the additional royalty that's required
over and above what I think is a very
nominal and reasonable royalty in
the marketplace for the manufacturer.
Also, the license has as an objective,
as I said earlier,
and this is the source of some of
the complexity which people perceive,
that it is to be used across
different business models.
And in certain cases,
different business models require
different royalty formations.
For example,
in the case of what we call unique use,
which is a cable or satellite,
traditional cable or satellite,
conditionally accessed communication.
There is a use royalty that
is paid one time upfront.
It's equivalent to about five years'
worth of royalties that would be paid
by an internet or mobile provider
over the course of five years.
But it's a one-time
upfront payment of $1.25.
We'll get to those
particulars in a minute.
As a result of the market
discussion that took place
following the QuickTime conference,
the patent holders also understood
the need to provide caps.
And in some cases,
there was not a direct connection
between the amount of usage
and the revenue realized.
In fact, there might be a great
disconnect between the two.
So they said, okay,
we should provide caps so that there's
a limitation on any royalty burden
that may attach to a video provider.
And so when we look further
at the details here,
we'll see that there are
caps built into this model.
Similarly, the patent holders understood,
at MPEG LA's direction,
that often the biggest
development in this area
starts with early stage adopters,
not unlike yourselves,
who use this technology
in ingenious ways,
in clever,
creative ways that would not be possible,
frankly, in the halls of a big company.
Some of you may be from big companies,
my apologies.
But often the best way to get a
technology to be widely used and
widely implemented and to foster many
creativity -- many creative solutions
is to get it in the hands of many users
and have them develop and show the way.
So into this license are built
threshold levels below which no
royalties are payable at all.
In the manufacturer's case, for example,
there are no royalties for the
first 50,000 decoders and first
50,000 encoders each year.
In the video provider case,
if someone has a service that goes out
to 50,000 or fewer subscribers in a year,
there is no royalty charge.
So even though you may be remunerated,
for the first 50,000 subscribers,
any remuneration you receive
is not charged a royalty.
This was built into this also.
And the hope, of course,
is that small users become large users.
But initially,
we should minimize the impact
so that the market can build.
And finally,
you'll see in the detail that there
are some alternative royalty options,
some requiring no royalty reports at all.
Again,
to minimize the burden on users from
having to fill out very difficult forms.
Well,
actually they're not very difficult,
but to have to even report
and record usage when their
usage is at a very low level.
And in some cases, for big companies,
instead of having to catch all that data,
they have the option of a
lump sum payment so they don't
have to actually record things
on a minute-by-minute basis.
Okay, let's look at the manufacturer's
part of the license first,
down to the detail level now.
I said that a manufacturer pays royalties
for the right to make and sell a decoder,
an encoder.
It's the end product in most cases.
It's the fully functioning product
in the Internet and PC case.
We talked about the fact that there
are different business models that
are encompassed by the license,
which may be the source of some
people's feeling that there's some
complexity that is difficult to swallow.
This is an example of where
a decoder or encoder software
is provided for a computer.
The manufacturer who would pay
the royalty here would be the
company that provides the software,
the fully functioning software
that is downloaded to the computer.
So just because I show a computer there,
it was difficult for me to
make a picture of software.
So I used a computer instead,
which is utilizing this software.
And indicated are several,
four out of the five,
business models covered by this license.
And they're indicated to show one thing.
If the decoder and encoder is usable
across all four of those business models,
or three, or two, or one,
and all of them are
sub-licensed in one decoder,
the manufacturer does not
pay the royalty four times.
The manufacturer pays the royalty once.
So for a single licensed product,
there is only one royalty,
and that royalty on a
decoder is 25 cents.
And that royalty on an
encoder is 25 cents.
And the one product, as I just said,
can be licensed across one or more
of the sublicense categories which
address different business models.
Once again,
it's to encourage manufacturers
to make this stuff,
not get into too much complication when
it comes to limitations on the use,
potential use,
of their decoders and encoders.
The decoder royalties at 25 cents
per unit and the encoder royalties
at 25 cents per unit are each subject
to a $1 million annual limitation.
So a company making decoders and
encoders would never pay more than
$2 million annually for the right to
produce these decoders and encoders.
The first 50,000 units of decoders,
there is no royalty at all.
and the first 50,000 units of encoders,
That's available, by the way,
just to be clear for the record.
That's available to one legal
entity in an enterprise.
So we don't let,
if there's a conglomerate and
there's multiple legal entities,
the threshold's available only
once to one legal entity each year.
But for most people,
this will cover the issue because
the manufacturing is generally
done in a central place or
under only one legal entity.
And when that's done,
the first 50,000 units,
both of decoders and encoders,
are exempt from royalty.
The manufacturer still signs the license,
but they report zero royalty on
the first 50,000 units of each.
That's the manufacturer.
Just to show you the manufacturer
in a handset setting.
Once again,
the market is changing rapidly,
so PCs and handsets and
PDAs all start to merge.
But for sake of understanding,
it's the same result.
A handset might receive internet video,
it might receive mobile video.
The decoder that's in
there is used for both.
So only one royalty
applies to the decoder,
only one royalty applies to the encoder,
25 cents each.
Again,
the million dollar caps for decoder,
million dollar caps for
encoders annually apply,
and the 50,000 unit
thresholds also apply,
below which no royalties are payable.
This illustration also
shows that the right,
the left, the right, the left, the right,
the
[Transcript missing]
Let's look at the video
provider situation.
Now remember, this is only a situation
where somebody is making money
offering the MPEG-4 video.
Otherwise, no royalties are payable
under this license.
So this...
License, this illustration, excuse me,
shows different examples,
different sources of video
being provided to a computer.
and in each case,
it is the provider of that video,
if they are charging remuneration,
if they are being remunerated,
who would pay the royalties.
There are three choices for them.
They can pay 25 cents
per subscriber per year.
So if they have a subscriber
for one day or if they have
a subscriber for one year,
25 cents for the subscriber.
It doesn't matter how little or much they
use the service in a period of a year.
One subscriber is charged one
royalty to the video provider.
Alternatively, they may meter it based
upon actual usage.
And this long set of numbers comes out
to about two cents an hour for each use.
And the third alternative,
if they want to avoid all reporting
and they know they're going to have
enormous usage and enormous remuneration,
they can choose a lump sum option.
which is the $1 million annual
fee for their video provider
service per legal entity.
Again, this is subject to a 50,000
annual subscriber threshold,
below which no royalties are paid.
And you see the same example played
out in the handset situation.
It does not differ.
Whether it's mobile or internet,
the consequences are the same.
As I may have mentioned earlier,
unique use cable satellite is subject to
a paid up amount per decoder and encoder,
which allows use in that
connection at $1.25 per unit.
Stored video is a separate category.
Stored video,
when we're talking stored video,
we're normally talking a DVD disk,
or DVD disk-like, I should say.
Physical media with data on it.
Or an electronic download or electronic
streaming of something that is
stored or storable or usable for
a minimum of 20 plays in 365 days.
Something that is really
permanent to the user and resides
on its desktop and is sold,
important,
sold on a title-by-title basis.
So if it's not sold on
a title-by-title basis,
then it's not subject to
the stored video rates.
And the idea here is simply
that where it is made available,
sold on a title-by-title basis,
The transaction,
the sale of that stored video is
able to carry the royalty in that
transaction because it stands on its
own and is basically economically
independent as a unit of commerce.
But it must meet those qualifications
to be considered stored video.
Otherwise, it's part of the Internet and
mobile video coverage.
Finally, as we've said before,
everybody pays the same royalty rates.
So a big company is not treated
better than a small company.
Patent holder is not treated better
than a non-patent holder user.
Everybody's treated the same.
Licensee data is
protected as confidential.
This is important.
It may not be so important
to the users in this room,
but it's important to people like
Apple and others who do not want,
I think in most cases,
their sales information shared with
the patent holders in this program.
We don't do that.
We maintain the confidentiality
of that information.
When royalties are paid out to them,
it is paid out in the aggregate.
It is not broken down by user,
by licensee, and so they do not know the
specific sales information
of particular licensees.
And finally, there's what we call a
grant-back provision.
It's not a grant-back to us.
It's a grant-back for the
benefit of any licensee.
It would be unfair if a licensee
took advantage of this license
But itself held an essential patent,
got all the rights on this license,
and then itself held an essential
patent which it denied to every other
licensee or every other licensor who
had made its intellectual property
available in this arrangement.
So what the license requires is
that if you take this license,
Then you must also license any
essential intellectual property that
you own to all other licensees and
licensors on fair and reasonable terms.
So it forces the marketplace
to collectively look and take
advantage of and be able to
use any essential intellectual
property which may be out there.
I would note one other thing.
In order to spur early adoption,
the license has also
provided for a grace period,
so no royalties would be payable on
products through the end of this year.
December 31, 2003.
Give people a chance to get used to it,
get people a chance to understand the
license terms and how they apply and
gear up for reporting and so forth.
And that's an important element as well.